.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH UPDATE-CA-CERTIFICATES 8 "5 April 2026"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
update-ca-certificates \- update system CA certificates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B update-ca-certificates
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBupdate-ca-certificates\fP is intended to keep the certificate stores of
various components in sync with the system CA certificates.
.PP
The canonical source of CA certificates is what p11-kit knows about.
By default p11-kit looks into /usr/share/pki/anchors
resp /etc/pki/trust/anchors but there could be other plugins that
serve as source for certificates as well.
.PP
To blacklist certificates symlinks to the respective certificates
can be placed in /etc/pki/trust/blocklist
.PP
\fBupdate-ca-certificates\fP invokes
custom plugins in /usr/lib/ca-certificates/update.d/*.plugin and
/etc/ca-certificates/update.d/*.plugin to generate various certificate storages as
used by different programs. The /etc/ca-certificates/update.d directory is an
override location for system administrators to add custom plugins.
.PP
The tool uses syslog for logging by default and supports transactional updates
to prevent plugin execution during package management operations.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show version information.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Be verbose. Output additional information beyond syslog logging.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-root <Directory>
Root Directory to use (defaults to / if not specified).
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-fresh
Fresh updates. Don't update stores incrementally but create from scratch.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/pki/trust/anchors
Directory of CA certificate trust anchors.
.TP
.I /usr/share/pki/trust/blocklist
Directory of blacklisted CA certificates
.TP
.I /etc/pki/trust/anchors
Directory of CA certificate trust anchors for use by the admin
.TP
.I /etc/pki/trust/blocklist
Directory of blacklisted CA certificates for use by the admin
.TP
.I /usr/lib/ca-certificates/update.d
Directory containing system certificate update plugins (*.plugin files)
.TP
.I /etc/ca-certificates/update.d
Directory for administrator-provided certificate update plugins (*.plugin files)
.TP
.I /var/lib/ca-certificates
State directory for certificate store management
.TP
.I /etc/pki/trust/.updated
Lock file created during transactional updates to prevent plugin execution
.TP
.I /var/log/update-ca.log
Log file for certificate update operations
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TRANSACTIONAL_UPDATE
When set to "true", "yes", or "1", prevents plugin execution and creates a lock file.
This is used during package management operations to avoid conflicts.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR c_rehash (1),
.BR p11-kit (8),
.BR trust (1)
.PP
For more information about p11-kit trust anchors:
.UR https://p11-glue.github.io/p11-glue/p11-kit.html
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
.B update-ca-certificates
was written by Gary L. Greene Jr. for YggdrasilSoft, LLC.
.PP
Copyright \\(co 2026 YggdrasilSoft, LLC.
.PP
This manual page was written for the update-ca-certificates tool.
.SH LICENSE
This program is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 or later.
